So hello. Hi.
Hi. My name is Alex
Seewald. I'm an
independent perfumer and I'll be
leading this conversation today.
I'm going to summarize
some of the facts that
led to these video being recorded
and for this conversation to be had.
So we are all gathered here to discuss an
ongoing concern
regarding publicly available
perfumery data.
Which is a very very
real risk of becoming extinct
This call is going to be a bit
formulaic because it's
essentially a public introduction of the
problems were facing
as well as possible solutions that we are not going to
get too much into the detail of. We are
mainly going to focus
on who we are why
we are interested in preserving perfuming
data and the problems it
currently has.
And get the ball rolling really
so I'd
like to start with a few facts first
some unfortunate some
rather worrying worrying
that have been discussed on various forums
like basenotes or on
Facebook and I keep
seeing hints of them
and have turned me down till we had this initial conversation online
line.
I didn't look into it too much into too much
detail. But when you start to look at them
together as it starts to look like
one big problem in this is what we're talking
about today. So
should we start with a big one? They would
send company so the good sense
company. So every single performer
knows this database you will started in
1980 by I'm sorry
if I mispronounced your name Bill luebke
and he made this information
public 1994.
And the database has grown over time.
He seems to be the only one maintaining that database
even his wife have gone missing in
action for a few months. Now,
there are General concerns
that the database has been updated for a while. I
believed that the last update was in
February this year.
I understand some people have been trying to get in touch in
September with them and no
contact since as far as I know
anyway.
So that is the first concern it is one of the biggest
databases and
it sounds like nobody's maintaining it
or whoever is maintaining. It is
not well or disappear. We don't
know there's a few other
sites such as
the big secret. It is a
Formula website started by
gerunds Bala
and you mentioned on a few forums that
it was not really interested in maintaining that
website anymore because
Is tired of maintaining the website alone.
There's a piece of software called Puffin
Pro
developed by the base note user
wouldn't tobacco which seems dead
and buried it doesn't to be honest. I haven't
found any information
about it, but try to Google a little bit
nothing. I'm
also aware that I'm aware that Contraband
present on this call was on a call with John
laughing. Well, he's a
man in his 80s with
leukemia.
It worked with man's bullet.
Who passed away this year?
Actually, it's not this year. I made a mistake. Just I have
to it's in 2010. I misread
the date. So it's not this here.
Yeah. Yeah. Well, this
is what we're discussing this or I don't have all the
information. I'm sure that you get there. We'll
probably have a fairly accurate representation
of what's going on. But yeah,
he's a man. He's the eighties with
leukemia and the data
basically what the
data he owns the data
to a point of it. I believe that some of the data
is owned by man's ball.
Owens estate. Yeah,
but that also means that these data is at risk of
Vanishing. So
this is the reason we're talking today.
There's a very real fear for the perfumery
data available to
Independent amateur perfumers from
getting extinct
people present here today are interested in safeguarding these
data somehow.
We all have our views on how to best accomplish this
Yeah, and this is what we're going to talk about. So as I
said before the call is going to be a bit
formulaic. So I'm going to give
everyone a
topic to discuss what it's no
conversation. We're not going to start asking questions
and answering because I could go on forever.
We just going to State
what we feel about each topic.
And and
hopefully people are watching
this video will get the gist
of what we're trying to do.
So I'd like to
start this call with a few short
introductions and talking about people's
backgrounds. And after that we
talked about everyone's skill sets
and everyone's fears about the current
state of perfumey data.
Does that sound
wonderful? Okay, I would just start
with what I would also mention.
One thing because I was quite subtle about it.
We will not discuss any possible future
actions. We're not looking at
the future what we could do with all that data
and so on. We're just focusing on
the topic of preserving that data.
I think I'm open. I'm open to people mentioning ideas of
what could be done better maybe because that could be a
concern what I'm going to talk
about this concerns about the current state
of the Performing data as well in addition to it becoming
extinct.
But we're trying not to think
too far ahead into the future.
So should we start with
introductions proper introductions?
What we do in our daily life and how we became
involved in perfumery.
Should I start? Yeah, we'll put
most definitely
and then Contraband last
so as I mentioned before I'm Alex Seewald,
I run an independent
perfumery and cosmetics Company in Manchester
in the UK by trade.
I'm a software engineer. I used to
run a medium-sized
consultancy software consultancy
until a few years ago. I
focus on research and development and
artificial intelligence these days
anyway in the past. I
worked with companies like
L'Oreal and weave it all.
I still like to get my hands dirty so to speak so I
still develop software on a daily
basis and these days I
work in the medical sector
talking about a bit about perfuming. So I started
my journey as a perfumer
that's about five years
ago.
I started with making cold process
soap bars because I was curious about the
chemistry involved and there was a
bit of a tinkerer
and then from Subs you start thinking way to be
nice if they smelled nice.
So as I'm looking at
fragrances essential oils like everyone
else and I'm sure that's how we all started
somehow
and long story short. I realized I was not going to go
very very far without Aroma
chemicals.
I know it's like collecting bottles from Pair
wall, which is based in the UK
that you may be aware of
and got hooked.
So these days I own a
easily on something like 400
materials and I keep adding to the palette
palette every month.
I mainly make bespoke perfumes. Although I do
sell a couple of fragrances online
doing turn to expand my business and the range
in 2021
depending on what's happening with this pandemic
and that's me so
catcher. Tell us about us
about you. Hello. Hello.
So nice to meet you.
Even during this
conversation.
Yeah, so I am based in Los
Angeles. I
am a man. I
would say an intermediate level
perfumer. I've studied
with it at the institute for Arnold faction for the last couple of
years, which has been really great
my interest in perfumery,
you know, I've been learned so much
about I love plants. I
love history.
And you know, this has provided a way to
understand people
better and our
history our history and I'm more like kind of
boy also
interested in
like immersive experiences.
So I've been doing some projects with
VR and just sort of like
lightweight experimental
projects.
And so yeah, so I'm just learning I'm learning a lot
about this. I have a
small growing library of
samples.
And
yeah, and also since May
there because of the pandemic there's
been so many perfumers have been able to meet
each other. So we have a
small group of sent
technologists on we have a
Discord Channel and so
we're starting to notice, you know, some
Community around and
build community around topics
related to where the scent and
Technology overlap.
Yeah, so that's kind of my
Introduction I can talk about the data
stuff. Oh and professionally, I'm a
programmer.
I have a background in science
museum education
informal science
and an open
government. So I'm about to start
a job that that will be more
heavily with open data
and you know public information.
So, yeah, so I also just
technically I am interested
and like offering whatever I
can. Thank you.
And you're going to bunt. Well, I am
comfortable on from bass notes.
That's where I live.
But anyways,
I'm also a software engineer, but I prefer to
say programmer to because
actually
that's what I like about it.
I've always been more comfortable with machines that
with humans. That's why I say
programming and since a very early
age, but
Professionally, I've been involved mainly
in the service industry
mostly financed.
So and it's been focused on
natural language processing
within a context of business
intelligence business Process Management
and data mining and that sort of stuff
but I'm retired since
2016 also,
and so I wanted to focus on either I
didn't want to do programming for other
people. I wanted to start to do
programming for the home and for
Or you know and to be you know, so I
started a couple of
e-commerce businesses. And also I
was involved in the cryptocurrencies a
lot which allowed me to
get into perfumery because perfumery is
expensive as we know
and and then I wanted to I said, oh,
maybe I can also because there's
nothing going on here in Canada about
anything about performing
performing very or Alders are a very
negative thing and their end.
Which is weird because we are French
basically and so
so I thought yeah, why not
start something that is part
ingredient and accessories retailer
and also part.
Well Institute of Art Health action to
think that because
they're a big inspiration behind
what we do for sure. We are true. I
don't know if we're going to be able to do something
that is even close
to what they have been succeeding
in doing.
I'm in California and in the
world now, but yeah, so
that's mainly what
what I am now and what I'm doing and why
I'm involved in perfumery.
Okay, thank you.
So unless our next topic and we
stopped to look at the more
interesting stuff.
I'd like to talk about the skills that we
have the could be useful to the
perfume
conservation project and
And why we'd like to use them.
I'm I'm going to start but I'm I'm going to try
not to repeat myself too much because I started an
introduction earlier.
That's I'm overlapping a little bit.
But as far as
I have knowledge in both perfuming
being an independent of humor as well
as being a software engineer.
I've got 20 plus years experience in
the industry. I run my
own software.
Something business for about 10 years
more recently. I've helped build
database systems apps
artificial intelligence systems for
some companies. I think I mentioned it
before L'Oreal and we beetle.
And these days I apply this knowledge to the medical
sector. I do fairly
low-level development around
databases real-time systems
data collection and data
augmentation because that's part of
what I do in dealing with
artificial intelligence.
So what do I bring to the table?
Well, first of all, I think because of all
this I think I'm quite a good
project manager because I did a lot of
what I have developed fairly large projects
for quite big companies.
I can see where we are and where we need
to be particularly
concerned consider considering
perfuming is a very close interest.
And yeah, I don't want to go too much into the each
skill set because I've got as I say, I've got 20 plus
years experience. I'm a software
engineer. I get mine my
hands dirty. I used to program in
C++ and assembly back in the day.
It actually intelligence today. I think you can infer the sort of
knowledge I have
Be on the flip side.
The one
skill that's important. I think it's because I know about
performing.
It is very creative. Although it's
a slow Pursuit and a
lot of my knowledge comes from personal
experience
that so many Aroma chemicals available. It's
impossible to know them all and I
Rely heavily on data that
is available
publicly and forums
again. I'm going to mention it again the goods and companies my main
source of information like a lot of
people. That's the reason I'm doing
this.
today
and yeah, a lot of people rely on this database
if you watch the spear will be red loss.
So I did things
like making a full copy
of TGs using hehd
track. They don't even know that tall.
So I've got a backup of that database here
and maintain session was to pass the database to make it more
useful. We can elaborate on this a bit
later and there's
also a lot of dates sources such as the big
secret which
is I forget his name now was to was started
by
Groans Fowler which is great
two gs. He has a handful of them formula. So these are
examples of data that is
available that I think again doing something
interesting with but the
main and we'll talk again.
I'm going ahead of myself a little bit. But
I think there's a lot of
of my skills that can be used to make this
data more useful clean that
data.
And make it available to people
and yeah, so I
think I'm going ahead of myself a little bit.
No, it's yeah Chacha. How
about you sir? Yeah.
so I think in terms of my
skills, I
what I can't what I can offer and you can
also sort of like what I have time for
is just
sort of helping build some Community around
this. I think that
there's some
with any kind of you know, this
sort of, you know, like a vulnerable data project,
you know, this is a
unique situation because
you're trying to locate the
Person who is maintaining it and that's
actually something I didn't know
before this call.
I think you know, it's a shared database do I
think that there's a lot that is
important about
building like starting
this conversation having
multiple conversations because
you know, there's a lot of different sources for the
data, you know, there's the
suppliers, you know, who always have the
most accurate data there's
peer review.
Assesses that can happen.
So, you know some of my experience
relating to you know,
kind of thinking through like some of the community
needs like that's something I can
help with and
creating, you know, some
sometimes there can be
a lot of technical expertise which can
alienate people that are less
Technical and I enjoy
creating opportunities
for
To bring people together to kind of you know,
look more closely at
that at what what data even
is because it's always evolving
or you know, it's our needs and
interests very
so I can bring some sensitivity to
that area
and Community Building.
And then you know, it's just as
a data person. I'm very
interested in
like days like understanding like what
what data is so like flash point, for example, what is
that? Like, how do we how do we
Define are the kinds
of terms that we use
which are you know, like have been on the Good Sense
company and I definitely
have I've been wondering about that
site because I know that it's
such an incredible.
credible resource that I mean
like as as a
programmer just looking at something that
was started in the 80s
that still going isn't so
incredible and I
hope that
you know and is the resource that we all use
and adjust hope that everybody knows
how how great how
like important it is and
because you know, there's so much a perfumery data so
complex and
as your
like as I've been learning about it, you know, it's
like I don't really understand every like
all the aspects of what I'm reading and it's you know,
it's like over having these resources over a
long period of time matters,
even if you get like a perfect
data set, it doesn't mean that you understand
it, you know.
Yeah, so those are some of the things I can help
with plastic.
Thank you and Contraband
well, there will be a bullet point list for
this and I really
focused on my current
usage of the data.
So it's going to be a little bit different from from
you you two guys, but anyways,
so I discovered TGs
see-through
iao in 2016
when I retired and I was looking.
Or something else to do
and and actually I found
their open source perfumery or open
source smell project back, then
it was already live and it was a
game-changer for me because it was the
first time I never saw
a list of resources anywhere else
before anywhere else before and that's where I
discovered perfumers Apprentice the Good Sense
company every
perfume supply house and all the other hand.
I know I
suddenly perfume which was previously
that looked like
like something like apple secret
military you get shot if you
know too much
turned into something that I could do myself
and I'm a hoarder. So both
ingredients that I started
almost ruining my buying them
and understanding them to gjc
but I'm also a data hoarder I
download everything and I keep them in a hard
drive even though I'm not using them for so
TJC I downloaded right
away back for
years ago.
I didn't make use of it until maybe two
years ago. When I
started, you know,
it was my
usage is not there to call. It's very
practical. So at some point I was
buying gradients and I was realizing where where am
I going with that? And
I said, oh maybe I can because I knew
that there were formulas in
the Good Sense company database. So I said, oh, well, what if
I parse the formula and I look
at what are the ingredients that I use the
most and I make it and I buy
a them according to those statistics. So
that was the first usage that I made it
was immediately practical for me.
So it's not at all, you know
something it could be a
theoretical thing. But for me was very practical that I
needed. I didn't know where to go
and the Good Sense company
right away was a tool
that you know, I use even
you know, that avoid me probably bankruptcy
because I would have done anything
for no reason and sorry. I'm spitting in my
microphone.
And so then the next
step was that I was interested
in the relationship between physical
and chemical properties and
organoleptic properties and I will explain our
genetics because maybe it's a big word but
basically just means how it
appears to senses. So
does it smell like mint or does it smell
like
anything and the tags that the good
sense company actually are using so basically
our their relationships between
the
an elliptic tags in the sense that our
how it smells to a human brain
and and the chemical and the physical data.
So so
basically
clustering normal cross ring and
normal regression
on the data between the two
to find patterns and everything and I
did find patterns contrary to some
people that say that it's useless and it
doesn't make sense for
yeah, and so
next thing was that
I wanted to maybe
even that the next step for me is that
I wanted to predict the
organoleptic of a formula and not just a single
ingredient which is basically what we're
trying to reach when you want the
computer to help you
composing a perfume and making a
formula and so
I've stated work on that too.
There is
also a
constraint based
formula composition also that
you say
You know, I wanted to see I want those
tags those tags those tags and so it gives
suggestions and it's very crude. You
know, I don't have user interface.
It's only I modify the parameters in the code and address
run it so it's not there's
no user interface for anything. But
I have my own,
you know perfume
composition software that is running now,
and I'm using and
that doesn't mean that it smells good what
but anyway, so and recently
more
Be like a couple of months ago or a couple of
weeks ago. You catch her I
made is a series of video on YouTube. And
actually there are posted on the
iao website
alongside their own series of video that they
made during the pandemic
and it was about is
vibration theory of smell. So I
heard about that theory
a long time ago, but of course it didn't make sense to me and people were
fighting over it on Basil's and I couldn't
understand anything and you made it very
Very clear. Actually this series to
me is a must you have to listen to it.
If a if
it's look
for Lucas Ryan on YouTube and he
only has those thing and actually their
list there. They're listed on the
iao website on
in their video section or something
and it before but I've never actually listen to it.
Okay. Yeah, so it's
very interesting. And
so what I got out
of it is that
Was the first time that I heard the
because there are many theories of
smells that are competing and
fiercely and
and it almost religiously
at times but for me the
vibration theory of smell is the first one
that offered a path from
the physical data to the
organoleptic data in a way that was not just
my you know,
random clustering and things that I could do
with well, you know random
wrist.
basically, so it offered a model that said,
okay we
It seems like the smells were
scepters are able to dictate
functional groups in a
molecule. Like it's
an aldehyde or it's you know,
a ketone or something like that.
So I said, oh we didn't be nice
because you have a
Smiles representation on TGs CI Smiles
representation basically is the
chemical representation is the string
of atoms basically that there
is in the molecule and it you can
extract basically the structure
of it. So one of the
Is that is in the structure are the functional groups
you can tell from the smiles
representation whether or not it's a
ketone or an aldehyde or
anything like that. So that was the
first thing that I try to do
and unfortunately, I
posted that on bass notes
and I got some
peopled and because they were angry at
me that I am anyways,
but anyways, it's working and it
works and it makes sense
now, so
so yeah, and I know
other thing that I did recently was that
I found out that of course on
TJ's seed are much more
ingredients than you can find at,
you know, the usual retailers. So I made a list of
all those ingredients that I called
rare to find because I couldn't
find them and I
post also posted that down on bass
notes to say. Oh maybe we can do group
buys for the things that you know that
are and and I also talked
to Kristin at
perfumer supply house and she was willing to say, oh
well
Via if there is a that minimum of
people that are going to buy that
minimal quantity that I'm willing
to make an offer for
that ingredient. So I posted that
online and nobody
used it except Paul Kyler we
tested it but then later I found out that he
doesn't need it because if he wants he can buy a
kilo of anything because he's in the
business and he has
He can maintain an inventory and it's no problem for
him. But for people that just want to
smell samples. I
thought that it was a good idea, but
apparently
nobody's using it. But anyways, it doesn't matter. It doesn't matter
because then I'm going to use it for my
clients and I will make use of it
eventually. It's just that
I find that there's a
generational gap between
the previous
generation of artists and or a
dependent perfume.
that are not at
all data
based or even
averse to technology and general and
a new generation
that will I think I'm part of and
that you are part of that are
more inclined
toward including technology in
perfumery engine
specifically and but I think that it
creates conflict sometimes
and and I don't like conflicts like
that and
so so so I found a lot of
reluctance through, you know, I always
try to post my things on bass
notes, but it's you know, there's a
lot of resistance on
this. So that's why to me it
adds to the problem that
I think that if we
don't do something the
community as it stands right now will
probably let it die, you
know because they're not that
much into Data so much as we
are now
so and to to finish
So my main interest now is the
is to find an order space
topology like because we have
a form of order space for
vision for example, RGB or all
familiar with you know, red green and
blue forms a space that
represents how we see things
and there's the same thing for audio but
there's no such things for
odors. So one of the things that we
cannot do right now is to create a
distance between
organoleptic distance with are similar.
There are two
different ingredients to the human nose.
We cannot do that formerly right
now, but I
talked to personally to look at certain
about it. And he said well his
estimate because I asked them what do you think is
the dimensionality of this other
space that is speculative right now, and he
said it's it
seems to him that it's about
10 10 D.
Basically, like for example, the
RGB is 3D audio is
2D it's time and amplitude.
But the other smell
would be
10 D. And the thing with that is
that it makes it
non-trivial to form
a distance notion because I know the
distance in 10d doesn't
is not intuitive for humans,
but it would
explain why some aldehydes
for example have
our ad seemingly, no nothing in common.
Organelle a plea sorry
the way they smell certain things.
I will drink just once
but anyway, so the other space
thing is my my
main
focus right now and I'm heavily
focused on that and and
then secondly the distance
between 2 2 molecule
in that other space. So
that's something that I think I took too much
time, but I felt it from
Alex.
Yeah, you could see me the fidgets English.
Yeah,
I think that's very interesting. I think you're making a good point, which
is probably should be the subject of
another call. Actually. I think it's very interesting is the
difference between
perfume years art.
Or and perfumery as a science
and I think that things are Blended
or is there a difference to me?
There's no difference personally. They actually
I think it's a very interesting subject
and I have discussed in sorry. I'm just opening your bracket.
I'm going to close it in second.
I think it's very interesting that what you're suggesting in
terms of ten Dimensions, or actually I
would say there's at least 30 dimensions in
terms of smells.
It's something that you do instinctively as a
perfumer, you know, all I want this to be
considered Dimension being Citrus a
dimension being Adam
indoor things like that. So you could
in your mind as a perfumer you can sort of
see it. But how do you do it with
pure data? It's how do you
tell a computer to do this? Very
very interesting, but
it's not a discussion for today.
So
The data shows that
the data is very important.
So because it's so important nice
segue
nice segue.
It needs to be I think we all do
They need to be preserved
and I would
like to talk about our own
perspectives and Impressions on the current
situation that I've highlighted
earlier and that judge on Contraband
have discussed as well.
So this is the time to actually dig into it and talk
about it.
So I guess I'll start
but I've I've already stated
my current concerns in the
introduction earlier because these are very
valid very serious.
Curtains maybe not to big
companies like iff and people don't have their own
database as I believe
Contraband as mentioned earlier with charcoal
burner,
but however, two independent
perfumers. Our people are just
learning beginners
days. It's not very perfume. He's
not very accessible. It's difficult to get
into it's expensive again as
Contraband said earlier.
so this data is
really really not only useful but it's
also vital and I know that you
mentioned poor Kyle earlier, but I know that you
mentioned before these using GSC 20 times
a day, you know, even if you're
even if you're independent perfume or even if you're bigger, you still
use it so
I do
have a lot of concerns with the current state of the
data that I would
like to address. The first one
is obviously it's at risk of Disappearing which
we discussed just then
at length I think
so to try to make but reassure
myself. I made a copy of TGs see such
as Contraband did and I'm sure a lot of people
have done the same but
these data is either out of date
or
It will never evolve you will never be
updated.
These data is made
of a lot of his gml files as a
minute and I'm sure there's a database
behind it again. I'm talking about the TGs
see specifically because that's the main
one, but that's true of a locked up a
lot of our other websites and
databases, but that's a lot of issue
ml files and I think
what should be done and I'm not going to go too far
into the future, but I think he needs to be passed. I think you
need to be cleaned.
And may be made available to the public even if it's
just and I think there's something I just got to
contraband offline, but
we should make it available to
the public. Even if it's a real copy
of the data as it is now
if Jesse were to go down today.
What do we do you know, so as he's having a
copy of it would be a good start to
beat a very very
very short term solution. It's not really a solution
and there's a few problems that this
brings. There's a question about permissions.
Do we have the right to copy that
data? Do we have the right to make it
publicly available?
So that's one of the concerns I have
and I think that we need to get permissions
from from Bill.
Counterfeit ecsc and from the
others from the other websites. I mentioned
earlier.
I think that once we have
permission, I think the data should always be
copyable. You should have duplicatable.
You should people should be able to
download it as it is
and
in terms of permissions if the but
I can explain this
because there's no Central Point at the minutes
for directing what happens to
that data. There's no Central
database though. There's no organic. There's
no company.
There's no organization in the
world. As far as I know. They
centralizing
that one database of armor
chemicals essential oils and so
on for everyone
to access
There's TGs. He became one
that is the de facto one,
but there's no real
organization a bit like Wikipedia. I'm
thinking of Wikipedia there
would make that data available
publicly everyone could contribute to
it and ensure that the
data is always updated
and that's one of my my concern
so
my
It's not really a solution. But the way I see it. I think the
data should be the
permission permission for that date. I
want to solve and obtained.
Hopefully we do obtain them if we don't obtain them it's a different
problem. But if we do
I think in my mind creating a
foundation or not for profit
profit organization a bit like the Eye-Fi
far a bit like Wikipedia.
Would be useful.
And they would direct what happens that
data, but the sole purpose and so
mission of that organization would be to make
the data publicly available and those
license these freely
very permissible. I think
Contraband mentioned before Creative
Commons. I think that's a really good idea
and there are other types of licenses, but the intention here is to
have an orgasm
that will an organization that
will keep the data public
that another concern I have and it's
always all right. Is it a lot of Iran permissions over I
think we'll find that the problem around data is
always permissions are the source of the data
because we don't know where it comes from and I
think because the sauce is own clear with t
with t GSC. I'm guessing some
of it comes from iff. She will die
excetera because you've got that logos
on the front page and the streaming the
contribute to the database. I don't know how they
contribute to teach
So you both Zoom the contributes
data. I don't think the
contribute money unless unless just having to
log on the front pages enough to justify
paying big so many to maintain the website book Running a
website just cost along money.
But yeah, the sauces are in clear
and I feel their maintenance Paramount. So
if we were looking at a model
like Wikipedia
and letting people contribute data to it, I think we
should know who contributed what data
so you can have
a certain guarantees that the data is accurate.
So if you look at another profile for new are mechanical
that nobody's ever seen before because
you know, he was a captive
if it came if it's Geodon captive and she would only
contribute to the data. I'll be quite happy with it. He
was just somebody who's unknowns was
posited one thing and say, oh it smells like it
smells like citrus. I don't know
that's true, you know, so I think there's
an importance about knowing what the data
source is and maintaining
it.
It's
All the same night as I was saying before long a long permissions
and where the data is from. I think that
needs to be controlled to a
point.
And then making the data available to the rest of the world really
through simple download of her.
The database will be downloaded as a zip file. It could be
through an API. It could be for a web
front end but keep
track of the sources and contributions. I
think we can pedia is a good model except for
the one thing that bothers me. Is
anyone can watch for Wikipedia.
We need to control how data is
contributed to the database and
updated dgse hasn't been
updated since February. I think I mentioned earlier
and I think that it does a few
mistakes you can see them all the time, but
you kind of know it's wrong but you can see a
lot of mistakes because lots of materials are
similar lots of images of cats similar
cast members and so on.
So I think having this way of
letting people contribute to the database directly
is definitely the direction I would like to
I see it being solved that problem being solved.
So from a technical point of view have to mention a SQL database.
I'd be happy with the SQL database doesn't matter
as which is a database
again Contraband mention Abdi be in the past which is a
distributed database system,
which allows copies everywhere. I personally
have concerns we doing that because you
could duplicate the data you can have
different copies of different versions of the data flying
around I would be more
comfortable having a centralized
database they've ripped
Dated so this is one but another
concern you can't I don't want to have Devon
dominating their own database iff making
their own database unless the sharing of the data.
And that's it really
in terms of concerns. My concerns were obviously I liked in the
introduction earlier. These are my more
specific technical concerns.
And I think the first step is
to grab copy of TGs see and
figure out how to
preserve it and how to make it available
to the world.
And then we can you can already infer the
possibilities of Beyond a simple cleaning and
mirroring of the data
but private preserving. The data is the Paramount
priority. Really
that's it. That's my view
judge them for Bunkie.
Yeah.
Yeah, so I
permission issues really
interesting. I as somebody
who is not on bass
notes very often and
I'm still I'm still learning
but I would I am and I
don't know that I would
be I feel like
because it you know perfumery is a
small community. I think, you know
just sort of doing an
inventory of who
Who may already know these
people and maybe I may have had these
conversations before can be
really important. But
you know, it's like we're waving a
red flag here
and signaling and so
some people because just
so yeah, I'm not going to interrupt you, but
they quickly as I mentioned before for
example to JSC was
created by for graft site
bill. I was forget his name.
Look a syllabic. Yeah.
Okay, I don't know how to pronounce it. So I'm sorry if I
mispronounced it
and he's the one who solely
maintain the database as far as we know
but we don't know what the data source is.
I just want to go
signal this signal that we're doing right now may
help solve that
problem.
If I guess I'll just put it out there. If
anybody knows, please please reach
out
particularly for you and my when I
will in spite of to talk, I have
Scoops. Okay, okay
plot twists suspense. I can't wait to
get to that in
terms of you know,
kind of properly Community
process. I think that
it's very possible because this
is a pain a pain point for
perfumers for a long.
Time I feel like there's there's going to be a lot
of energy of people
seeing seeing this same thing and having
really similar interests. So
some models that could also
work into this process. I like
like what you were mentioning about, you know
coming up with some sort of
foundation or you know, like,
you know some Community a community group that is
able to Steward the
data. You don't have
develop a you know some goal line.
Shared goals.
I
think that in reaching out to
whoever
the permissions that
need to be obtained from sort of
organizing that kind of
that
kind of mission or that at intention
could be really helpful, you know, just
sort of to form a relationship.
I think that there's so
many possible partners
for for this and
that eventually like I could see
he's having some sort of like Town Hall,
you know, maybe in a few months where you
know people that have interest
can can come and
participate even you know you
for data that's
coming say from like a fragrance
house like they're going that's you know,
they're always going to be the best source
of their like say their precise chemical
information and so
forming relationships in that
way it
but I think you know,
Just like also acknowledging
what's come before is really
important. And you know, I'm sure that everybody
in those situations has their
own deep feelings
about this and so just making sure
that there's
room to communicate,
you know, as we're starting with
that and the same thing, you know, like what if for data
just ensuring that that
data is correct and accurate because
though you know for me that those are
like those values are the ones that I am
using for my own safety.
ft and you just took
to make sure that whatever
is like the formula is that I'm making are not
actually poisonous
which sometimes they've got clothes
so
Yeah, so I like I like the general direction
of what you're talking about. And I think you know just
sort of
making sure that there's a good structure
for Community participation
is going to be really important and
also, you know, like there may be a
proliferation of databases, you
know, there may be some shared one, but there may
be like others to which is a great
thing to have. You know, it's just like
you have like, you know,
you'll be able to have this some
opinions over time.
And you don't have just like that one One Source you
have you may have like wrong a few and
so the these
kind of like having only
one thing that's really vulnerable will
be not as much of an issue.
Okay. Thank you.
And what just come to months take on the
problem. Well, I think
I'm gonna just grab a water a little
bit make you
wait. All right,
so well again, it's going to be a
little bit different than your
two interventions because
basically I have been the one,
you know, having those
conversation and then making
this realization.
That it was necessary because
of events that happened actually in my
life or in the forums that I
was I was a witness
of and so the first thing that started
for me is that many reference books
have gone out of print and
I have not even been digitized and are not
offered on the internet
archives freely or
are not because the new Avenue
Library service that you can download things for
24 hours and then they have
drms now.
On some of those things, but it
some of some books are not even available
like that. And Google
Books is evil it will
only let you see the table of
contents and the parts that they choose
anyways, there are lots of it started for me
with reference books that people were mentioning on bass
notes and and other places and
especially Paul Keller with his famous
for that say no I have it
it cost me like $2,000 to get
that single copy. It's the only one
left in the world I can.
If you're really nice with me
make some copies of the
pages, but the two
that that was the first trigger for me.
I was triggered by that and I'm not saying that
both Keller is is evil
he does what he can and he's you know,
he's also a answering a lot
of questions to the community on
bezels. Nino is really present is
really a community organizer. But he has
this is who corrects and some of them is that he's proud
of some
exclusive knowledge that are
exclusive access that he has to some
knowledge. And so the
other thing was that
before bass notes and before
all of those things there was a
perfume making Yahoo groups and there are
groups is closing on
December 15 of this year. I know
that the original perfume
making Group which for
example Tower the guy
who does the tower and of
aggregate is foreign.
First Lane, but if you know
last time I ever came and
everything it was he started
making perfumes on that
on that mailing list. And so this
mailing list is going away. They have made a
copy and they are now on another
mailing list system, but there's a couple of
other perfumery
related mailing list that are still on
Yahoo groups that will die and
December of this year if they're
not scraped the for that
and one of them that I'm
Really interested in is the one that was
related to ancient formulas and
ancient will is a necessary,
you know, that would be kind of ironic
that the history mailing list
is going away. First
forever. It's gonna yeah.
So also when your whole
civilization being
basically white tough, yeah,
and and so many blogs are
also disappearing because
maybe maybe it's I
would say
Years ago, but it's more like 20 years
ago in the blog era and
WordPress and movable
type. I don't know if you're old enough to
remember that but
I'm not that hold by the way, don't say that.
But yeah, so a lot
of those bloggers were hired
by other
entities and the perfume world
and even in
Vivo de or iff,
and they were forced to close their
blogs
so that
And a lot to people people
are also deleting their own post
on Basil's because the rage
quit base notes very
often and people that have contributed a
lot,
you know, and then earlier this year
because I was scraping the Good Sense
company. I realized that it was not
updated based on the time stamps of the
files. I realized that the
precise date that it was last updated was
February 24th. There's
no other update after that
and I looked
The x times I looked at the site map
and I feel like it's you
know, I don't know a four-hour long it
anyways, so that was a problem to me. And
then in September of this year
Paul Kyler again
posted a message saying that it was not able to
reach Bill and Linda
which are the which is a couple that is
maintaining. Well, it's mostly bill I think
but they are maintaining the Good
Sense company database and he
said, oh maybe we should send them
wish, you know.
Wish you well cards and stuff and
then and then
so.
Well, the main plot twist is I talked to Paul
Kyler yesterday on the phone
and because I wanted to ask him
did you hear news? It's I September and
said no, I was like, oh my God,
this is the
sorrowful and but and
but he told me don't contact them yet. I will
try to to to contact them
again because he has been in touch
with them. So I didn't want
to bypass him and and just go
ahead and so he said and don't contact
him.
Them. Well Polly is going to try
to contact them. And basically that's what I mean. You
don't want 10,000 perfumers around the world
trying to come to yeah, look the same because yeah,
I think it's gonna do you make things worst
Really Gonna want to run away with
it and and but
basically, yeah,
so that also happen
everything happened on bass notes basically
and so the other thing
you ever once parlor also posted on bass notes that he
was tired maintaining his formula
website.
Right and then later, I was having
a conversation with
people including Paul Keller
about missile did Raja
Jasmine at which is more known as
it's your own and
so we were trying to figure out
what were the islamists in the
how do you say that in English? Please? Let me know how to
pronounce it correctly is isomers.
Whereas on Earth eyes omers. Yes,
so isomers in in the
in the various Indian.
X and I realized that that
information was not even on TGs see why
it's important because so 40 GS see
anything that is missile. Did Russia is
not is one thing and
so so
there is not even a listing of the
different isomers
and there's not even a listing of the
theoretically desirable sis
isomer that is but that is one
of probably eight or more
isomers that are in the
Middle Ages.
Man admixtures so that
prompted Paul Keller to say well
or something somebody else said, well, you
should look at laughing Wells
Associates, which is another
database. It's not free. It's actually quite
expensive, but they
probably have some information on
that and Paul Keller said you should call
it indirectly, you know, he likes to
talk and I think so
so I called him to
and that's when he told me that
he was 80 something
and I will
Dealing with leukemia right now. I'm
laughing. But okay, please I'm not laughing about
it. Like I was like, oh this is
bad news upon bad news upon bad
news everything closeness and
the seriousness of the situation. Yes
y-yes, so but to be
honest so and that was the purpose of
this video to make it clear that I'm not
I don't think I'm hallucinating
anything, you know, and
I
He told me that he
used to work with another
partner that died in 2010.
Like he Alex
mentioned, but he is
also sending
money to the this partner
this dead Partners family
because they actually basically
merge his database with
John laughing Wheels database and that made the current product that
it is right now, so it's already a
licensing mess and I
said well, let me
I think about it and maybe
that's why I said
well, I won't I need to talk about other
people and see if there's interest
about all those things and are
you interested that I call you back in
a couple of weeks or something?
And he said yes, so so that's
the state of the things but I think it's going to
be a lot of talking to those
owners of the
data and well,
you know
because in the meantime the big
Aroma chemical
knees are multiplying the announcements that
they are working with AI and
big data in their companies and they're
doing it in a proprietary way that is
closed that is not accessible to us.
And I have a feeling that if we're not doing
anything, we're not going to be
able to maintain artisanal
perform very competitive with
the big companies because we don't have access to
this data and they do and
they are telling us we well
we have it. We're not giving it to you
and anyways
I just want to
mention because it was a topic
that I'm against
centralization in any
form. And to me
the thing that needs to be done is
just to make a dump of the data with
a permissive license
and to ask the original owners of the
data if they
agree with that and if they don't answer
there still something we have to do
about it. That's my point of
view grid and
and it's just a dump of the data as it
is with its, you know
with its inaccuracies with
anything as it is right now and then we can
start making something else
afterwards because
yeah, so because I'm a
I'm I have always been a
hacker. It's more like
download first and then talk
later or license later.
So I have it already in
my in well
in my hard drives and everything, but
I think that to feel good
about it. If I want to do something
commercially, I needed to be license
differently. That's my point of view and
also to be able to
to exist somewhere that I can download it instead of
just scraping it like, you know,
black hat hacker again,
so that would be my
and I'm for this centralization. I'm against
centralization and control
and I'm for decentralization
and the open-source period of
four
it if you need to if you
disagree basically, which yeah,
so that would be my
and I know that I disagree with other people on
this and but that's
my point of view
and we can argue about it.
I have Arguments
for that kind of things when we get to
that when thank you. Yeah, they're
infantis you we seem to have
a slightly this slight
disagreement as to
With the database to manage whether it should be copied
and copied and maintained by different people or
whether it should be centralized. But
that's that's part of the fun. We can talk about
debuffing the general direction of travel
is is correct. We need
to save that data.
So I've tried to limit this call to
an hour. Are we doing
and now I'm 35, I
know and now we're 35 know
it we start know. It's
an hour and 10, so
it's an hour and
And it's been an hour and Penny almost any
yeah.
So yeah, there was quite a lot to talk about
quite clearly.
Those are real concerns for
independent perfumers like ourselves.
There's clearly an appetite to help resolve it.
There's a lot of questions left
unanswered. So
the intention is for people to watch this
video.
I hope I didn't bore you to death.
I believe you're going to post it on base
notes. Is that correct? Yes,
and yes, it's going to be on
YouTube as well or is it just no
just you just bake. I don't know where I'm going to
lost it yet, maybe but I don't
want to again because I hate
centralized things. I'm not
gonna know it's not gonna be on
on YouTube probably
anyone watching wherever you are right now.
Let us know your thoughts comment.
Video, if you'd like to take part in
these discussions, please make yourselves
known of course through the
Forum or Facebook or
wherever you're watching this video.
The intention is to have another chat in a couple
of weeks. Is that fair?
Yes, once we far
even sooner as far as I'm concerned,
I'm ready for something sooner.
I think we say couple of weeks just so we have a chance to absorb
all the information
maybe let people come and discuss it
watch the video.
and also maybe thought of actions and then
we can share those publicly
will be following up some of the items mentioned during this goal
update everyone, but it's
definitely an ongoing concern
either we find a short-term solution or
Sir, here we are again. It looks like
we had technical difficulties.
So I'm doing my closing again.
So those are real concerns for
perfumers independent perfumers, like
ourselves. There's
clearly an appetite to
help resolve the problem. The
intention is for everyone here
watching this video and
comment. Let us know your folks
if you'd like to take part in these
discussions.
Please do make yourselves known for
it forum for Facebook for
YouTube. Just let us
know you're interested in helping
out. The intention is
to have another chat in a couple of weeks.
Once we've had a chance to absorb this information
and maybe full of actions and we'll share those
publicly.
We will also be
following up on some of the items that were
discussed during that call.
This is definitely an ongoing concern.
Either we find a short-term solution
or maybe our fears will be put to
bed. So to speak maybe we'll get a
phone call from TGs
see telling us everything's fine.
Then maybe everything is fine. But
there are so many websites that
are currently at risk so many
databases. I'd risk
that. I think there's
quite a lot of work to do.
So, thanks everyone.
See you on the forums see on Facebook.
And I'll see you on the further
video in a couple of weeks by.